The idea for tuning a velocity torque controller is that you’re taking the error, and applying a torque based on that error. So the mechanism accelerates to the desired velocity. This is very very similar to tuning a position voltage controller, with the added bonus that you don’t need to deal with an acceleration-equivalent of momentum, so it’s a bit simpler conceptually.
And since we’re dealing with forces, the feed-forward terms make intuitive sense.

    kP - How fast to accelerate to get to target velocity
    kS - The torque necessary to cancel out the torque due to friction
    kV - The torque necessary to cancel out the torque due to friction-that-scales-with-velocity (or drag)

For low-friction mechanisms, just kP is sufficient. For mechanisms with more friction, kS may be necessary, and for mechanisms that have a lot of drag a kV may be necessary. But more often than not you only need kP and kS.

Generally, I’ve had a lot of success with the following process tuning for velocity-torque (for flywheels more recently but I’ve also done this with drivetrains, it just takes longer).

    1. Start with a “low” kP (for flywheels this has been around 5)
    2. Target a “low” velocity (for flywheels It’s been like 20 rps on a 1:1 reduction)
    3. Increase kS until measured velocity reaches target velocity (initial gain of 1 or so)
    4. Go to a “high” velocity (~60 rps)
        If the measured velocity is at target, go to 8
    5. Increase kV until measured velocity reaches target (initial gain of 1/target or so)
    6. Go back to “low” velocity, and decrease kS until measured reaches target
    7. Repeat from step 4.
    8. Verify gains work at other target velocities
    9. Increase kP until oscillation, take 90% and that’s your kP

This process is basically finding the slope-intercept point of a linear formula by iteration. Slope is the kV term and intercept is the kS term. kP is just used to reach the target if the feed forwards truly neutral out the forces due to friction. Once you’re confident in the feed-forwards, you crank kP to get to target as fast as possible.